---
title: "Complex Mathematical Symbol Definition Structures: A Dataset and Model for Coordination Resolution in Definition Extraction"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2023-05-definition-coordination
excerpt: 'Mathematical symbol definition extraction is important for improving scholarly reading interfaces and scholarly information extraction (IE). However, the task poses several challenges: math symbols are difficult to process as they are not composed of natural language morphemes; and scholarly papers often contain sentences that require resolving complex coordinate structures. We present SymDef, an English language dataset of 5,927 sentences from full-text scientific papers where each sentence is annotated with all mathematical symbols linked with their corresponding definitions. This dataset focuses specifically on complex coordination structures such as "respectively" constructions, which often contain overlapping definition spans. We also introduce a new definition extraction method that masks mathematical symbols, creates a copy of each sentence for each symbol, specifies a target symbol, and predicts its corresponding definition spans using slot filling. Our experiments show that our definition extraction model significantly outperforms RoBERTa and other strong IE baseline systems by 10.9 points with a macro F1 score of 84.82. With our dataset and model, we can detect complex definitions in scholarly documents to make scientific writing more readable.'
date: 2023-05-24
venue: 'arXiv'
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.14660.pdf'
citation: 'Anna Martin-Boyle, Andrew Head, Kyle Lo, Risham Sidhu, Marti A. Hearst, and Dongyeop Kang. (2023). &quot;Complex Mathematical Symbol Definition Structures: A Dataset and Model for Coordination Resolution in Definition Extraction.&quot;  	arXiv:2305.14660.'
---

[Download paper here](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.14660.pdf)

Recommended citation: [Complex Mathematical Symbol Definition Structures: A Dataset and Model for Coordination Resolution in Definition Extraction](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.14660.pdf) (Martin-Boyle et al., 2023)
